# Final Project

For my final project for this class, I was instructed to "Do anything related to coding". We had various options and could get creative for the final, with options such as playing with other coding languages, writing another page, retaking a certification exam if we didn't do well the first time, or "Vibe Coding". 
This was interesting, as we could really stretch and play with the parameters and content of the assignment, along with the requirements for it, so it was essentially up to the student to "create their own final". This being my first (technically) college class, it's interesting to think about what I might be able to expect from DE classes and even college in my future courses.

For my project, I wanted to make a script that could run under some restrictive conditions. The computers that APS issues to us are tightly locked down with a custom installation of macOS and MDM software that prevents web access to certain sites and things. While I understand the need, I (and many other people) feel that this system is integrated and works very poorly to control web access, as it often targets sites that shouldn't be targeted or are necessary for use within classes. The custom installation, JAMF, is also hard to use, as it restricts access to the computer system itself, so students (and teachers alike) are often required to either use their own computer or find hacky workarounds in order to run the software that they need. (It wouldn't let me install VSCode for a while). Primarily concerning my project, the system restricts access to 'sudo' on the student user account, and administrators often don't even have access to admin system permissions. 

My script is designed to be one of the hacky workarounds. It's designed to automatically install homebrew using git tools onto the user's home profile, and then perform a full setup and installation of a QEMU virtual machine. I did this because, as I mentioned, virtualization is one of the easiest and most feasible ways to workaround the blocking and restrictions system, and JAMF leaves the hypervisor framework for macOS untouched and unlocked, allowing for hardware acceleration. The script only requires that the user have git installed and set up properly to clone a repository. It handles everything from the terminal and (theoretically) installs QEMU and initializes a virtual machine. 

I had fun with this project, I got to explore bash and shell scripts, which I had never really worked with up until this point. It's pretty simple to write, only using terminal commands that I already know, the only real brainpower required was ordering everything to go in order. I also played around with vibe coding for this project, using github copilot (an AI tool) to help debug and write some of the code. I wrote most of it myself, but copilot suggested things that I maybe should research into and look at using if I was going to make this project work, which is extremely helpful. I think this is one of the best ways to use AI, as it can provide some minor help, but primarily provides resources and study material to help me learn, rather than doing my work for me. 

